What is the Competition Doing?
By:Jacob Moore

	The site that is being created by my group is geared towards science and nature. 
  Our goal is to promote sustainability and to bring awareness to environmental issues.
  We believe that bringing awareness to these issues will help create a better future. 
  However, our company isn’t the only organization trying to accomplish these things. 
  Below is a full competition analysis of other companies trying to achieve the same goals.
	At Treehugger.com, they are determined to promote sustainability. 
  When a user first goes onto their site, they are able to view categories such as “design, living, science, technology, transportation,
  energy, and slideshows” in the nav bar. The font size for this nav bar is about 28, which is a good size for content to be readable
  while the background of the nav bar is green which is the universal color for sustainability.
  In addition to this, Treehugger.com does a great job of promoting their social media accounts by putting the links in the logo 
  of their site which is posted on every page at the top. In addition to this, the articles of information are posted in rows and by 
  date which helps the user sort what is relevant. On every page that the user goes to on the site, it uses the same grid layout 
  which helps with site navigation and recognition. The negative aspects of this site are that since there is a lot of information in one space, there isn’t a lot of whitespace which could make the information harder for someone to read. In addition to this, this website isn’t responsive at all. 
	The second website is www.nature.com which also tries to promote sustainability and nature awareness.
  When a user first goes onto their site, they are greeted with the latest articles and current news. 
  This website doesn't use a horizontal nav bar but it uses a vertical one that is accessible once the user pushes the menu option. 
  If the user scrolls down, they are met with more articles. One of the benefits of putting in the vertical navigation bar is that it 
  saves alot of space on this website,therefore there is a lot of whitespace that the user can see. 
  However one negative about this website is that there are too many informational blue links at the bottom of the page which could be 
  overwhelming for the user.

Usability Testing
By: Jacob Moore

Person:Linda Moore
Age:50-60
Ethnicity: African American

	Lindas occupation is teaching. She has been teaching for over 20 years.  She was asked to perform some tasks on this website. 
  The first task that she was asked was to was to locate where the donate page is. She first looked at the bottom of the page. 
  When she didn’t find it, she looked in the navbar and then finally she located the option above the nav bar. 
  When I asked her why she immediately looked down at the bottom of the page, she said “Because most companies don’t want to seem like they're hungry money so they put the donate option at the end of the page. She suggested that the creators of this website do the same. 
	The second task that she was asked to complete was to give feedback about the background color of the donate page. 
  She looked at it for a minute and suggested that the background color be changed to something more ecologically friendly so that users will be convinced to donate. In addition to his, she also suggested that the creators of this site have a paypal option available just in case someone doesn’t want to use their credit card. Another piece of feedback that she gave was to have a brief description of where the money that she would donate would go to in order to make the user feel more comfortable
	The third task that she would be asked to complete was to find the mission statement.
  She easily located it towards the middle of the page. When asked about the location of the mission statement, she was indecisive. 
  On one hand she felt like the mission statement should be further up to the top. However, at the same time, if the mission statement 
  was further up to the top it would take away from the sites other content and possibly bore the reader. 
  On the other hand, if the mission statement is too far away, the user won’t scroll down to read it. 
  At the end of the usability testing, she agreed that the creators of this website should create a tab just for the mission statement.
	


Person:Gracy Andrews
Age:40-50
Occupation: Teacher

	Gracy Andrews is a education teacher working for the Department of Education. Her first task was to locate where pictures of nature 
  would be. The first thing she did was to go to the navigation bar to find the Gallery option. Once she assessed the gallery, she was 
  asked to assemble some feedback for the page. After two minutes her first set of feedback was that the background color is too plain. 
  She explained that in order for it to be a nature website, the color theme would have to be different. The second question she had was if the text was going to stay static since she observed that the creators of this website wanted to have a slideshow of pictures. Third she was interested in the type of pictures that would be shown. Would the pictures be of all animals or would it be something different?
	The second task that she was asked to do was to locate the contact information page. The first place that Gracy looked is at the navigation bar. When she couldn’t find it, she decided to scroll down to find it. She found it at the end of the page. When asked about the location, she confessed that she didn’t like it. She said that most companies put the contact tab in the navigation bar just in case the user only wants the contact information. Otherwise the user would be scrolling through a plethora of information that they find useless. In addition to this, she also said that she didn’t like the format of the contact page and also included that the social media links should be added to the bottom of the site as well if the creators of this website decide to keep the contact information in its original place.
	The third task that she completed was to tell the usability tester about the color scheme of the website. 
  Similar to Linda, she thought that the color of the website looked too plain to be a nature website. 
  She referenced science websites that she had used to get materials for her kids in school and she said that there was no comparison. 
  However opposite of Linda, she didn’t suggest a nature green color look. Instead she suggested going with a consistent aqua ocean 
  themed background color which would automatically suggest to the user that this is a nature website.
